okay sweet I'm gonna demo this is the
first-ever semi-public
demo of the fot implementation and I'm
gonna demo it with the lipitor PE
network visualization to it so the cold
is that most really that network
visualization toolkit but the thing I
have that working with is the Falcone
implementation so I'll walk you through
that
can you see this same can you read this
roughly or do you need to be bigger
bigger so fill net SIM phone network
simulator and visualize earth this is a
tool to simulate a Falco Network locally
it spawns go ipfs sorry go file going
note demons randomly it issues commenced
to them via the CLI tool then the same
issues actions randomly according to the
set of program options the sim supports
connected into individual Falcon notes
to issue commands manually meaning the
simulation can be going and you can hook
into it and also send commands the sim
consumes all event logs coming out of
those demons and transforms them into
input logs for a visualization so I'll
walk through how that works
a little bit I'll give you like a good
diagram I'll kind of show you the demo
first and then I'll walk through how
that that tool works the sim also serves
so the visualization is on the well app
so this little tool has a web server and
in the future this may run across many
machines so the structure of this is set
up so that in interior we can easily
split up this tool and have it be
running across a bunch of machines and
then that aggregates into a single web
app that shows you a visualization of
large-scale networks so ideally I would
love to see visualizations of dhts
in the you know thousands or tens of
thousands of nodes
like see like the entire cat Emily out
like routing table shifting know that
might be hard but we can think about how
we might do this kind of stuff so
effectively what this simulator does is
there's a program that is going to send
a set of actions to these demons and the
program has a bunch of options so things
like the maximum number of nodes to
start certain timing things whether or
not to censor in actions some properties
are on mining so like this is the
consensus working and and so on and then
this uses go file coin which is the
Falcone implementation so you're up
stood here so the implementation
is a tool much like go IVFs everybody
familiar with us will recognize some of
the the things here like the lipid
repeat swarm command and it implements a
full blockchain in IPL D so it has a dag
command just like going PFS so you can
pull out all the objects of the file
coin blockchain through the familiar
I feel the ability commands and you can
walk through the blockchain that way so
you could pull out specific pieces and
we'll see it at a moment and then that's
the question it has a set of
transactions we call those messages the
transaction smart contracts model same
way of thinking about that you can think
of actors and messages and message
passing so we tend to call them message
as an actress because of a whole bunch
of reasons around thinking about like
programming languages and so on anyway
we just renamed it for now well we'll
see if that name sticks and and so this
I could kind of walk you through
initializing a daemon manually and so on
but it's pretty involved in as much
easier to just show the simulator and
then I'll hook into one of the knows and
they're all
some commands so what I'll do first is
I'll run this tool it's kind of like the
basic parameters and so what this is
doing is now it first gave me some links
so it gives me a logging endpoint and so
this is effectively the same kind of log
output that are that both any kind of
Lipnicki implementation and go every
fess chair where it's just a bunch of
jason logs but these are transformed
I'll get into that later so how that
transformation happens but they're not
the raw logs that are coming out of of
go file coin they have been changed by
the simulator tool I get into why when I
explain how this Tool Works so then it
also offers a couple of like endpoints
for for some visualizations that I
haven't mounted onto this then they have
there's a whole bunch of options here
this will be set by the by the flags and
then here it's just starting to add
demons and it gives me a few of the
options it shows me the the repo of
where that particular node is it gives
me the wallet address for that that node
this happens to be a miner so it has a
miner actor address it gives me a
command prepped up to like connect to it
if I wanted to and it gives me a command
prepped up to it if I wanted to use it
right so I can connect this one and I
can say hey what's your ID right you can
do it over here too let's see
I can do swarm pierce and you know
typical kind of stuff this society fest
should know that's just a p2p that's
like a look at P thing will fix that but
it also can do things like show me the
order book and so I can see like the
asks and so that's like a set of orders
that are now in the market and so this
has been running for a little bit of
time and so like it already generated a
whole order book we'll see it in a
moment and over here I just have h stop
running so there's a whole bunch of
demons being just so that you get a
sense it's filtering on the word file
coin and so that means there's a bunch
of demons running and a bunch of
commands being assured that so that's
just a show that the simulator here is
creating a bunch of processes that are
running now I'm gonna kill it and
restart it because we really want to
hook into the visualization at the
beginning otherwise JavaScript the d3
kind of blows up that's kind of funny
but so start it up again oh actually
before that all the demons should die if
they know they're not dying I said oh
that's maybe H stop is like no there we
go yeah we start stuff
so now we'll write it again and we'll
open the visualization so this is what
them that it's doing you can't see it
you can barely see it so each one of
those things is an action so that's a
payment transaction that's a deal
happening there's a block being mined
there's a note entering that's another
payment transaction and note another
note being another block being mined
more payments and so on and here you can
see all the bits and it asks that miners
are at my nursing clients are adding to
the market here you can see a depth
chart of the storage market here you can
see the heads of the these are this is
the blockchain effectively as it's
growing and here on the right is the
deals being tallied up so these are bids
and asks or you know when when this
happens and they overlap then that these
are candidates for a deal and the
simulator will notice that and then it
will tell those who nodes to to make new
way to make well it'll pick some of
those nose and have them make a deal and
I'll show up here and when a deal
happens then actually files are
exchanged and so I'll show you that in a
so to show that I can go back here and
ask to see see the deals order book
deals JQ and I can grab one of those
things and I Bank and ask client cat
that hash into file now I can open the
file I don't know what it oh I think
this is unencrypted one I'll grab
another one same story
don't remember the keyboard for a cup
this is I think to read me get I get a
better one yeah
there are cat pictures here yeah I
really just need to increase the
probability of sampling cat by making it
look man anyway so this is transferring
real files and they're being pulled from
a set of a set of test files than I have
but that means that these notes are
actually you know adding and
transferring real files that clients are
sending their real files to the miners
and having them stored so that's you
know you know so the whole idea of the
storage market is working where clients
are putting bids minor supporting asks
they get mashed into a deal then once
there's the deal the client sends a file
to the miner to store and that's that's
what you saw so we don't have the
equivalent of the retrieval market here
shown but it would be kind of the
symmetric set of operations and down
here you can see kinda the set of
heartbeats and so here you if you look
kind of closely it's a little bit hard
to see but you see that all of these
chain heads switch and converge because
that's consensus happening so the and
this so far has process about six
thousand seven hundred events at some
point he gets to be too much so it uh I
need to like reboot the simulator
because you know this is like running
fifteen different different taco nodes
in my machine oh one more thing it if I
click one of these things I land on a
[Music]
phone Explorer which is effectively kind
of like a blockchain Explorer tool but
it's built it right in and so this is
following the chain as it appears I can
click into into it and see the this is
particular block this is the miner this
is the state route the state route is
the
the state of that block and so that
means like all the state transitions
have been applied
that's all IPL D so you could like
browse it right now for example I see
Ram we have all of the IPL the importers
for aetherium so we can do the same
thing in the theorem as well and here is
a set of messages so these are like the
actual transactions and you can see the
method invocation that's happening and
the parameters that are being sent there
so in this particular block we see that
we have the ones that don't have a
method is just sending money so that's
just a normal like you know transaction
as you wouldn't on Bitcoin a payment
here's adding an ask another payment and
so on there are no deals on this one and
these are kind of like the outputs of
each of the each of the messages we can
also see the set of actors so this is
looking at the local storage of the of
the chain in a sense and we can see each
one of these actors is think of it as a
smart contract it has an address it has
the SE ID of the code that is executing
this actor it has memory which is this
memory is just like the local storage of
the of the actor or smart contract and
here like the functions as exporting
though you can you can call here you see
these are ego types those will not be go
types in the future and there's you know
a bunch of different kinds of kinds of
accounts for example instantiate one of
these actors for you and maintain a set
of local estate so and this this
Explorer is you know we clicked clicks
not particularly node if the if the
network was divided then and we clicked
on a different one then we would see
potentially different state so this the
idea of this visualization is that it
sets it up so you could explore the
network in the right direction now the
Explorer is connecting directly to the
node and like asking for things and it
might in the future also write this
visualization though is is meant to only
to be read-only or at least to have a
read-only mode where it works entirely
off the logs and the idea for that is
that we should be able to take a trace
of a run tree of a previous run and
store it and then just from the logs be
able to replay the entire thing to see
it
and ideally later on maybe potentially
have some playback controls so we could
we could actually like speed it up or
slow it down or jump to a specific point
and the idea of that is that it could
help significantly with debugging so
right now this seems super chaotic
because there's a lot going on but you
know we can play with this and you know
instead of doing all this stuff we can
you know turn off a bunch of the of the
things that it's doing and say like
maybe do no automatic actions and then
actually manually script what I wanted
to do like actually just like right now
I want to connect to a lot like IPTV in
a sense but it's basically the
instrumentation of might be TV + some
like specific simulation actions
specific to this to this particular
application plus some of the event
translation so the event translation I
mentioned that I was going to go into
that's because the event logs that are
coming out of of the node are specific
to how the go file phone implementation
works and so that's you know the event
logs there are like whatever the
developers want to get out of those logs
now that may not be with a visualization
once and so that translation is there to
make it easy for each group of
developers to focus on what they care
about so the go falcon developers can
just think of the events that they want
to put into the falcore falcore node and
the visualization developers can think
about the events that they want to
visualize right so things like sending a
payment things like making a deal and so
on there might be a one-to-one
correspondence some event then there
might be exactly what they're looking
for but maybe the parameters they're
looking for different maybe the whole
event log output is too much maybe we
don't need all of that
or maybe it's actually missing something
and you need to aggregate multiple
events into one so that translator in
the middle is a very important piece
that makes it easy to to build
visualizations on top of just the raw
event logs by just putting the the
intelligence of the visualization into
that translation in a sense and so I
think that that structure is really
promising for lipid api-- in general
because it could work equally well for
the DHD we could
with ad/hd visualization that's similar
to this where you know around the ring
we just have tht nose and and what we
see is you know like puts and gets and
you know retrieval so it's putting gets
on to the DHD and we can see these would
be kind of like actual like requests
going through or ideally we could also
draw the the connections between these
nose and see the buckets right so that's
what kind of this is headed now of
course at the HD that's massive we would
have to think about how to visualize
that but you know there are like there
are like really good visualizations for
this kind of stuff like we do know how
to take huge amounts of data and if this
is what I'm known as yeah I want for
this but there are ways of visualizing
huge amounts of data well and so we
could totally do this we could totally
write visualizations that help us debug
that help us understand protocols by the
way education is a whole other thing
here where we could script this to go
follow a potentially user input and tell
somebody like teach somebody about a
protocol by carefully scripting the
events and waiting for user input before
moving between them so you could explain
how a DHT works through this interactive
thing just written on top of a normal
event trace of the protocol you and and
you could just craft that event trace by
just writing the the event log yourself
like maybe you record something and then
you tuned it a little bit for for the
right pedagogical effect right look
maybe you reduce the amount of events
that are happening
maybe you pick a specific interesting
edge case to just demonstrate something
so that's what that's the kind of
potential of tools like this and what I
want to go with it where I want to go
with this is make this general enough to
the point where writing a visualization
for a specific protocol could be mounted
on top of like this very general tool
that does all of the event our radiation
and the option setting in like all the
heavy lifting of the
orchestration so as we you know some
kind of like modular plug-in thing but
that's kind of where this headed and
just to show you you know this this
other visualization is here I'll I'll
show you like a different I can run the
simulator again and look at the
different at the blockchain
visualization and what that does is it
shows me the the chain a so this is the
same exact thing it's just a different
front-end that's that's looking at
different events and then the events
that I'm interested in here just the
block announcements from each node so
whenever a node sees a block it emits an
event and whenever a node picks a block
as its head of the chain it also emits
an event and so what i'm doing here is
i'm i'm just graphing and by me I mean
Nicola Nicola wrote this want a credit
for that he's adding whenever he sees a
new block he adds it to the graph and
then whenever he sees an additional
event of having seen that block he just
logs that as a count so so the dark
number here that we see in the bottom is
how many nodes have seen that block and
the blue number is how many nodes are
using that block as the head of the
chain and so we can see right away like
whether or not we're achieving consensus
and this kind of going fast but like
this is not working these things are
converging and staying so here I set a
parameter and specifically to try and
cause it to 4k you know with two or
three three blocks per per round just to
show you know what happens when like
multiple parties like try to mind there
and then you know whether or not we got
convergence or a fork and you know
they're so converging here now of course
it's all local and like not realistic
setting and so on but it gives you an
idea of how we might use tools like this
to debug consensus protocols and to
understand whether or not they're
converging or or to understand if like
perhaps you know some some important
event there is like getting lost I found
a book through this I found a book that
one of the events is not being emitted
by at least one of the nodes and I think
it's the node that generated the block
100% sure but
you look at the cows they don't match up
like there's always one less so anyway
it right away like the fans like that so
this is just you know a different front
end and you could totally imagine
generating a bunch of different front
ends for for a protocol so let's just
see kind of maybe ipfs like a bit swap
front end to see kind of like your bits
were peers and how much bandwidth you've
you've sent them what the want list is
you start doing a bun
you know these very focused applications
just on that protocol and mount it just
something topple the exact same of
entries right any questions so far
that was a sim I set the block time to
three seconds no no that was way too
fast for it I should have said that way
too fast for a normal worldwide work
consensus we we possibly could get it to
the brainy fast but we wouldn't need to
start doing some of the clever like
maintain running too many chains kind of
a many heads of the chain at once and
then finally some I are getting them
over time that's how you can scale
through but also stuff like charting
techniques that that can get got their
ghost is pretty impressive like the
ghost paper claims you can get to you
know one or two second lanes here
something like that
which I don't think anybody's deployed
seriously yeah in abortion other
questions is that currently using IP TB
or is that something just something
similar it is not currently using epi TV
it should it was just kinda like a
historical reason why wait why it didn't
start it with that but it totally should
be a reason to apply to be a BB all
right sounds good thank you
you